Disaster Recovery Plan
Disaster recovery is the plan an organization has to regain functionality and access to its IT infrastructure after a human or natural disaster. This can be quantified as any event which may bring down or disable either a network or vital piece of equipment such as a server. At Techpatix we understand the importance of having multiple layers to protect our infrastructure and have taken the necessary steps to ensure minimal downtime in the event of a disaster.
To ensure our directories, files and services are secure, we have begun with a full backup of all nodes in our environment. Following the initial full backup an incremental backup will take place weekly backing up anything which has changed since the previous backup. We have an in-house server holding all backups for quick recovery of any user-created errors such as accidental deletions or reversal of any corrupted data/files. We also understand that having backups in house can lead to issues in the event of an emergency which affects your building or location where the IT infrastructure is stored. This is why we have chosen a 3rd party disaster recovery as a service (DRaaS) to help further protect ourselves.
Redundancy is key during a disaster recovery plan, on top of our inhouse backups we have chosen to employ Arcserve UDP Cloud Direct services as a DRaaS. In addition to our own backups, Arcserve will also provide a full backup followed by weekly incremental backups to our servers. These backups will be housed by Arcserve in their cloud-based network, allowing us to have multiple backups, one in-house and one off-site. With these two backups implemented we feel confident in having our data and files secure and easily recovered should any disaster occur.
Our 2nd reason for choosing Arcserve is their service which allows us to back up our network infrastructure, allowing Techpatix to replicate our network virtually via the cloud. If our primary network goes down we will have VPN access to the replicated network which we will connect to via VirtualBox.


