SD-WAN stands for Software Defined Wide Area Network and was developed to manage the WAN. A WAN is needed for HQ and branch sites to communicate and becomes an important aspect to look at as remote locations are added. A WAN typically uses MPLS or leased fiber and as such has high operating costs. While traffic can take a path through the internet between sites, application performance suffers heavily. With an SD-WAN implementation, you can minimize WAN usage by utilizing the internet connection much more reliably. This leads to a high cost savings.

Another benefit includes application traffic management. Policies can be created for your applications and allow control over them and what path they may take, whether it’s through MPLS or through the internet. Having this ability is especially important in the age of SaaS. Other benefits include increased security, easier management, and reduced processor load on the routers.

To implement this, we can take a look at the Cisco architecture on an SD-WAN. Firstly, special routers are installed at the edges and are called vEdges. This handles the data plane aspect of the architecture. Next, vSmart controllers are installed. These will handle the control plane. The vManage box is installed last and is used to manage the other routers. Usually the vSmart and vManage components are in the cloud. A transport method is then used, like MPLS or the internet.

The control and management plane is essentially decoupled from the routers and is now managed by the vSmart and vManage boxes. vSmart now handles all routing information and heavily reduces the load on HQ and remote branch routers. This also makes scalability and future site implementation much easier.
